README.md, before:

# GDPR Obfuscator Project

The GDPR Obfuscator Project is a tool designed to help Northcoders comply with GDPR requirements by anonymizing personally identifiable information (PII) in data stored in AWS S3. It supports CSV, JSON, and Parquet file formats and can be integrated into AWS Lambda for automated processing. The tool replaces sensitive data fields with obfuscated values, ensuring compliance with GDPR regulations and replaces the sensitive information in place. This tool can be run locally or uploaded to an AWS system where it will monitor an S3 bucket and automatically update this information using an AWS lambda service.

## Features

The GDPR Obfuscator offers comprehensive functionality for data anonymization:

- **Multi-Format Support**: Works with CSV, JSON, and Parquet files, providing flexibility for different data storage formats.

- **AWS Integration**: Seamlessly integrates with AWS S3 and Lambda for cloud-based processing and automation.

- **Automated Deployment**: Uses Terraform for infrastructure-as-code deployment, ensuring consistent and repeatable deployments.

- **Customizable Obfuscation**: Allows users to specify which fields to obfuscate in the input data, providing control over the anonymization process.

- **Comprehensive Testing**: Includes unit tests, integration tests, and security checks to ensure reliability and security.

## Prerequisites

Before using the GDPR Obfuscator, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed and configured:

- Python 3.x: Verify installation with `python3 --version`
- Terraform: Verify installation with `terraform --version`
- AWS CLI: Configure with your credentials using `aws configure`
- S3 Buckets: Manually create two S3 buckets, the names of these will be required:
  - Lambda Bucket: For storing Lambda deployment packages
  - Terraform State Bucket: For storing Terraform state files

## Installation

1. Clone the Repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/gdpr-obfuscator.git
cd gdpr-obfuscator
```

2. Set Up the Virtual Environment:

```bash
make install
```

3. Run Quality Checks:

```bash
make lint
make security-checks
```

4. Run Tests:

```bash
make test
```

## Usage

### Running Locally

You can run the GDPR Obfuscator locally using the `run_locally.py` helper script. This script takes two arguments:

1. The path to the input file
2. A JSON array of fields to obfuscate

#### Usage Syntax

```bash
python run_locally.py <input_file> <pii_fields>
```

- `<input_file>`: Path to the input file (CSV, JSON, or Parquet)
- `<pii_fields>`: A JSON array of field names to obfuscate (e.g., `["name", "email"]`)

#### Examples

Obfuscate a CSV file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.csv '["name", "email"]'
```

Obfuscate a JSON file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.json '["name", "email"]'
```

Obfuscate a Parquet file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.parquet '["name", "email"]'
```

### Input File Examples

#### CSV (data.csv):

```csv
name,email,phone
John Doe,john.doe@example.com,123-456-7890
Jane Smith,jane.smith@example.com,987-654-3210
```

#### JSON (data.json):

```json
[
  {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "phone": "123-456-7890"
  },
  {
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "email": "jane.smith@example.com",
    "phone": "987-654-3210"
  }
]
```

#### Parquet (data.parquet):

Use a tool like pandas to create a Parquet file:

```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame({
    "name": ["John Doe", "Jane Smith"],
    "email": ["john.doe@example.com", "jane.smith@example.com"],
    "phone": ["123-456-7890", "987-654-3210"]
})
df.to_parquet("data.parquet")
```

### Output

The input file will be overwritten with the obfuscated data.

For example, after running the script on data.csv:

```csv
name,email,phone
****,****,123-456-7890
****,****,987-654-3210
```

The script will print the result to the console:

```json
{
  "statusCode": 200,
  "body": {
    "message": "Successfully processed and overwritten local file: data.csv",
    "format": "csv"
  }
}
```

### Error Handling

- If the input file is not found:

```
Input file not found: <input_file>
```

- If the PII fields are not provided in valid JSON format:

```
Invalid JSON format for PII fields. Please provide a valid JSON array of field names.
```

- If an error occurs during processing:

```
Error processing file: <error details>
```

## AWS Lambda Integration

The GDPR Obfuscator can be deployed as an AWS Lambda function, in order to do this I have made another script obfuscator_lambda.py:

The reason for this is that imports such as Pandas and Pyarrow are too large for the AWS Lambda layers so I re wrote the code.

You will need a terraform state bucket for the automatic deployment below to work.

To do this in a command line configured with your AWS credentials

```bash

aws s3api create-bucket --bucket nameforstatebucket --region eu-west-2

```

This will need to be added to the main.tf code on line 13.

I have packaged the rest of the terraform commands into the Makefile

1. Clean and install dependencies:

```bash
make clean install
```

2. Run tests and security checks:

```bash
make test security-checks
```

3. Create Lambda package and layers:

```bash
make package create-layers
```

4. Plan and apply Terraform

```bash
plan-and-apply
```

4. Test the Lambda Function using the following JSON input:
   You will have to put a csv into the data bucket created

```json
{
  "file_to_obfuscate": "s3://your-bucket/file.csv",
  "pii_fields": ["name"]
}
```

4. To remove all elementss from AWS once deployed

```bash
make clean-all

```

## Points to note that due to time constraints more features will be added

1. I would like to add the functionality that the lambda will run automatically whenever a file is added to S3
1. I would like to add the functionality that an email is sent to confirm that this process has occurrded.

Commit message:

trying to increase coverage and readme update

README.md, after:

# GDPR Obfuscator Project

The GDPR Obfuscator Project is a tool designed to help Northcoders comply with GDPR requirements by anonymizing personally identifiable information (PII) in data stored in AWS S3. It supports CSV, JSON, and Parquet file formats and can be integrated into AWS Lambda for automated processing. The tool replaces sensitive data fields with obfuscated values, ensuring compliance with GDPR regulations and replaces the sensitive information in place. This tool can be run locally or uploaded to an AWS system where it will monitor an S3 bucket and automatically update this information using an AWS lambda service.

## Features

The GDPR Obfuscator offers comprehensive functionality for data anonymization:

- **Multi-Format Support**: Works with CSV, JSON, and Parquet files, providing flexibility for different data storage formats.

- **AWS Integration**: Seamlessly integrates with AWS S3 and Lambda for cloud-based processing and automation.

- **Automated Deployment**: Uses Terraform for infrastructure-as-code deployment, ensuring consistent and repeatable deployments.

- **Customizable Obfuscation**: Allows users to specify which fields to obfuscate in the input data, providing control over the anonymization process.

- **Comprehensive Testing**: Includes unit tests, integration tests, and security checks to ensure reliability and security.

## Prerequisites

Before using the GDPR Obfuscator, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed and configured:

- Python 3.x: Verify installation with `python3 --version`
- Terraform: Verify installation with `terraform --version`
- AWS CLI: Configure with your credentials using `aws configure`
- S3 Buckets: Manually create two S3 buckets, the names of these will be required:
  - Lambda Bucket: For storing Lambda deployment packages
  - Terraform State Bucket: For storing Terraform state files

## Installation

1. Clone the Repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/gdpr-obfuscator.git
cd gdpr-obfuscator
```

2. Set Up the Virtual Environment:

```bash
make install
```

3. Run Quality Checks:

```bash
make quality-checks

```

4. Run Tests:

```bash
make test
```

## Usage

### Running Locally

You can run the GDPR Obfuscator locally using the `run_locally.py` helper script. This script takes two arguments:

1. The path to the input file
2. A JSON array of fields to obfuscate

#### Usage Syntax

```bash
python run_locally.py <input_file> <pii_fields>
```

- `<input_file>`: Path to the input file (CSV, JSON, or Parquet)
- `<pii_fields>`: A JSON array of field names to obfuscate (e.g., `["name", "email"]`)

#### Examples

Obfuscate a CSV file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.csv '["name", "email"]'
```

Obfuscate a JSON file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.json '["name", "email"]'
```

Obfuscate a Parquet file:

```bash
python run_locally.py data.parquet '["name", "email"]'
```

### Input File Examples

#### CSV (data.csv):

```csv
name,email,phone
John Doe,john.doe@example.com,123-456-7890
Jane Smith,jane.smith@example.com,987-654-3210
```

#### JSON (data.json):

```json
[
  {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "phone": "123-456-7890"
  },
  {
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "email": "jane.smith@example.com",
    "phone": "987-654-3210"
  }
]
```

#### Parquet (data.parquet):

Use a tool like pandas to create a Parquet file:

```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame({
    "name": ["John Doe", "Jane Smith"],
    "email": ["john.doe@example.com", "jane.smith@example.com"],
    "phone": ["123-456-7890", "987-654-3210"]
})
df.to_parquet("data.parquet")
```

### Output

The input file will be overwritten with the obfuscated data.

For example, after running the script on data.csv:

```csv
name,email,phone
****,****,123-456-7890
****,****,987-654-3210
```

The script will print the result to the console:

```json
{
  "statusCode": 200,
  "body": {
    "message": "Successfully processed and overwritten local file: data.csv",
    "format": "csv"
  }
}
```

### Error Handling

- If the input file is not found:

```
Input file not found: <input_file>
```

- If the PII fields are not provided in valid JSON format:

```
Invalid JSON format for PII fields. Please provide a valid JSON array of field names.
```

- If an error occurs during processing:

```
Error processing file: <error details>
```

## AWS Lambda Integration

The GDPR Obfuscator can be deployed as an AWS Lambda function, in order to do this I have made another script obfuscator_lambda.py:

The reason for this is that imports such as Pandas and Pyarrow are too large for the AWS Lambda layers so I re wrote the code.

You will need a terraform state bucket for the automatic deployment below to work.

To do this in a command line configured with your AWS credentials

```bash

aws s3api create-bucket --bucket nameforstatebucket --region eu-west-2

```

This will need to be added to the main.tf code on line 13.

I have packaged the rest of the terraform commands into the Makefile

1. Clean and install dependencies:

```bash
make clean install
```

2. Run tests and security checks:

```bash
make quality-checks
```

3. Create Lambda package and layers:

```bash
make package create-layers
```

4. Plan and apply Terraform

```bash
plan-and-apply
```

4. Test the Lambda Function using the following JSON input:
   You will have to put a csv into the data bucket created

```json
{
  "file_to_obfuscate": "s3://your-bucket/file.csv",
  "pii_fields": ["name"]
}
```

4. To remove all elementss from AWS once deployed

```bash
make clean-all

```

## Points to note that due to time constraints more features will be added

1. I would like to add the functionality that the lambda will run automatically whenever a file is added to S3
2. I would like to add the functionality that an email is sent to confirm that this process has occurrded.
3. I would like to increase the coverage of the obfuscator_lambda.py
